.TH DPARAM 1 "Aug 22, 2013" "gtransfer 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]dparam\f[] - The dparam helper script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]dparam --create|-c \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] --source|-s \f[I]gsiftpSourceUrl\f[] --destination|-d \f[I]gsiftpDestinationUrl\f[] --alias|-a \f[I]alias\f[] [--configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.PP
\f[B]dparam --list|-l \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] [--verbose|-v] [--configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.PP
\f[B]dparam --retrieve|-r \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] [--quiet|-q] [--configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]dparam\f[] is a helper script for \f[B]gtransfer(1)\f[] to
support users in creating dparams, listing available dparams and
retrieve the latest dparams from a preconfigured repository.
.SH MODES
.PP
\f[B]dparam\f[] has several modes of operation:
.SS \f[B]CREATE\f[]
.PP
Creates a dparam file and a link to it named after the alias that
is specified by the user.
.SS \f[B]LIST\f[]
.PP
Lists all available dparams files.
.SS \f[B]RETRIEVE\f[]
.PP
Retrieve the latest dparams available.
In this mode \f[B]dparam\f[] updates the local dparams with data
available from a preconfigured repository.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The options are as follows:
.PP
\f[B]CREATE Mode:\f[]
.SS \f[B]-c, --create \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[]\f[]
.PP
Create a new dparam either in the user-provided path or - if no
additional path is given - in the user dpaths directory in:
.PP
\f[I]$HOME/.gtransfer/dpaths\f[]
.SS \f[B]-s, --source \f[I]gsiftpSourceUrl\f[]\f[]
.PP
Set the source URL for the dparam without any path portion at the
end.
.PP
Example:
.PP
gsiftp://saturn.milkyway.universe:2811
.SS \f[B]-d, --destination|-d \f[I]gsiftpDestinationUrl\f[]\f[]
.PP
Set the destination URL for the dparam without any path portion at
the end.
.PP
Example:
.PP
gsiftp://pluto.milkyway.universe:2811
.SS \f[B]-a, --alias \f[I]alias\f[]\f[]
.PP
Set the alias for the created dparam.
\f[B]dparam\f[] will create a link named \f[I]alias\f[] to the
dparam file which name is the SHA1 hash of the source destination
combination.
.PP
\f[B]NOTICE:\f[] Naming of the aliases is not restricted, but it is
recommended to use something like the following:
.PP
\[lq]{{site|organization}_{resource|hostName|FQDN}|Local}\[em]to\[em]{site|organization}_{resource|hostName|FQDN}\[rq]
.PP
\f[B]LIST Mode:\f[]
.SS \f[B]-l, --list \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] [-v, --verbose]\f[]
.PP
List all dparams available in the user-provided path or - if no
additional path is given - in the user and system dparams
directories.
.PP
\f[B]RETRIEVE Mode:\f[]
.SS \f[B]-r, --retrieve \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] [-q, --quiet]\f[]
.PP
Retrieve the latest dparams available on the preconfigured
repository and store them in the user-provided path or - if no
additional path is given - in the user dparams directory.
If a \[lq]\[em]quiet|-q\[rq] is provided, then output is omitted
and success/failure is only reported by the exit value.
.PP
General options:
.SS \f[B][--configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.PP
Set the name of the configuration file for dparam.
If not set, this defaults to:
.IP "1." 3
\[lq]/etc/gtransfer/dparam.conf\[rq] or
.IP "2." 3
\[lq]<GTRANSFER_BASE_PATH>/etc/dparam.conf\[rq] or
.IP "3." 3
\[lq]/etc/opt/gtransfer/dparam.conf\[rq] or
.IP "4." 3
\[lq]$HOME/.gtransfer/dparam.conf\[rq] or
.IP "5." 3
\[lq]$( dirname $BASH_SOURCE )/../etc\[rq] in this order.
.SS \f[B][--help]\f[]
.PP
Prints out a help message.
.SS \f[B][-V, --version]\f[]
.PP
Prints out version information.
.SH FILES
.SS \f[I][\&...]/dparam.conf\f[]
.PP
The dpath configuration file.
.SS \f[I][\&...]/dparams/\f[]
.PP
This dir contains the system dpaths usable by gtransfer and is
configurable.
Can be created with \f[B]dparam\f[].
.SS \f[I]$HOME/.gtransfer/dparams/\f[]
.PP
This dir contains the user dpaths usable by gtransfer.
Can be created with \f[B]dparam\f[].
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]dparam(5)\f[], \f[B]sha1sum(1)\f[], \f[B]gtransfer(1)\f[]
.SH AUTHORS
Frank Scheiner.

