.TH DPATH 1 "Aug 22, 2013" "gtransfer 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
dpath - The dpath helper script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]dpath --create|-c \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] --source|-s \f[I]gsiftpSourceUrl\f[] --destination|-d \f[I]gsiftpDestinationUrl\f[] --alias|-a \f[I]alias\f[] [\[em]dpath-template \f[I]dpathTemplate\f[]] [\[em]configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.PP
\f[B]dpath --batch-create|-b \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] --hosts|-h \f[I]hostsFile\f[] [--dpath-template \f[I]dpathTemplate\f[]] [--configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.PP
\f[B]dpath --list|-l \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] [--verbose|-v] [--configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.PP
\f[B]dpath --retrieve|-r \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] [--verbose|-v] [--configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.PP
\f[B]dpath --reindex \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] [--verbose|-v] [--configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]dpath\f[] is a helper script for \f[B]gtransfer(1)\f[] to
support users in creating dpaths, listing available dpaths and
retrieve the latest dpaths from a preconfigured repository.
.SH MODES
.PP
\f[B]dpath\f[] has several modes of operation:
.SS \f[B]CREATE\f[]
.PP
Creates a dpath file and a link to it named after the alias that is
specified by the user.
.SS \f[B]BATCH CREATE\f[]
.PP
Creates all possible dpaths between host addresses given in a file.
Corresponding aliases are created automatically.
.SS \f[B]LIST\f[]
.PP
Lists all available dpaths.
Additionally only sources and destinations of dpaths can be listed,
too.
.SS \f[B]RETRIEVE\f[]
.PP
Retrieve the latest dpaths available.
In this mode dpath updates the local dpaths with data available
from a preconfigured repository.
.SS \f[B]REINDEX\f[]
.PP
Reindex all dpaths.
In this mode dpath updates the sources and destinations index
files.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The options are as follows:
.PP
\f[B]CREATE Mode:\f[]
.SS \f[B]-c, --create \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[]\f[]
.PP
Create a new dpath either in the user-provided path or - if no
additional path is given - in the user dpaths directory in:
.PP
\f[I]$HOME/.gtransfer/dpaths\f[]
.SS \f[B]-s, --source \f[I]gsiftpSourceUrl\f[]\f[]
.PP
Set the source URL for the dpath without any path portion at the
end.
.PP
Example:
.PP
gsiftp://saturn.milkyway.universe:2811
.SS \f[B]-d, --destination|-d \f[I]gsiftpDestinationUrl\f[]\f[]
.PP
Set the destination URL for the dpath without any path portion at
the end.
.PP
Example:
.PP
gsiftp://pluto.milkyway.universe:2811
.SS \f[B]-a, --alias \f[I]alias\f[]\f[]
.PP
Set the alias for the created dpath.
\f[B]dpath\f[] will create a link named \f[I]alias\f[] to the dpath
file which name is the SHA1 hash of the source destination
combination.
.PP
\f[B]NOTICE:\f[] Naming of the aliases is not restricted, but it is
recommended to use something like the following:
.PP
\[lq]{{site|organization}_{resource|hostName|FQDN}|Local}\[em]to\[em]{site|organization}_{resource|hostName|FQDN}\[rq]
.SS \f[B][--dpath-template \f[I]dpathTemplate\f[]]\f[]
.PP
When provided, dpath will use the given template for dpath
creation.
The following variables are expanded during dpath creation:
.PP
$sourceWithoutPath => gsiftpSourceUrl => the host address of the
source site
.PP
$destinationWithoutPath => gsiftpDestinationUrl => the host address
of the destination site
.PP
\f[B]BATCH CREATE Mode:\f[]
.SS \f[B]-b, --batch-create \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[]\f[]
.PP
Create dpaths in batch mode either in the user-provided path or -
if no additional path is given - in the user dpaths directory in:
.PP
$HOME/.gtransfer/dpaths
.PP
When used dpath will create dpaths for all possible connections
between the hosts given in the hostsFile and omit connections
between the same hosts.
.SS \f[B]-h, \[em]hosts \f[I]hostsFile\f[]\f[]
.PP
Set the file name for the file containing the host addresses for
which dpaths should be created.
The format of each line in this file is as follows:
.PP
://hostname.domain.tld:
.PP
Example contents:
.PP
\f[CR]
      gsiftp://gridftp.omicron.mercury:2811
      gsiftp://gridftp.gamma.mars:2812
      [...]
\f[]
.SS \f[B][--dpath-template \f[I]dpathTemplate\f[]]\f[]
.PP
When provided, dpath will use the given template for dpath
creation.
The following variables are expanded during dpath creation:
.PP
$sourceWithoutPath => gsiftpSourceUrl => the host address of the
source site
.PP
$destinationWithoutPath => gsiftpDestinationUrl => the host address
of the destination site
.PP
\f[B]LIST Mode:\f[]
.SS \f[B]-l, --list \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] [-v, --verbose]\f[]
.PP
List all dpaths available in the user-provided path or - if no
additional path is given - in the user and system dpaths
directories.
.SS \f[B]--list-sources \f[I][/path/to/dataPaths]\f[]\f[]
.PP
List all sources from the dpaths in the user provided path or - if
no additional path is given - in the user and system dpaths
directories.
.SS \f[B]--list-destinations \f[I][/path/to/dataPaths]\f[]\f[]
.PP
List all destinations from the dpaths in the user provided path or
- if no additional path is given - in the user and system dpaths
directories.
.PP
\f[B]RETRIEVE Mode:\f[]
.SS \f[B]-r, --retrieve \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[] [-q, --quiet]\f[]
.PP
Retrieve the latest dpaths available on the preconfigured
repository and store them in the user-provided path or - if no
additional path is given - in the user dpaths directory.
If a \[lq]\[em]quiet|-q\[rq] is provided, then output is omitted
and success/failure is only reported by the exit value.
.PP
\f[B]REINDEX Mode:\f[]
.SS \f[B]--reindex \f[I][/path/to/files]\f[]\f[]
.PP
Reindex all dpaths in the user provided path or - if no additional
path is given - in the user dpaths directory.
.PP
General options:
.SS \f[B][--configfile \f[I]configurationFile\f[]]\f[]
.PP
Set the name of the configuration file for dpath.
If not set, this defaults to:
.IP "1." 3
\f[I]/etc/gtransfer/dpath.conf\f[] or
.IP "2." 3
_<GTRANSFER_BASE\f[I]PATH>/etc/dpath.conf\f[] or
.IP "3." 3
\f[I]/etc/opt/gtransfer/dpath.conf\f[] or
.IP "4." 3
\f[I]$HOME/.gtransfer/dpath.conf\f[] or
.IP "5." 3
_$( dirname $BASH\f[I]SOURCE )/../etc\f[] in this order.
.SS \f[B][--help]\f[]
.PP
Prints out a help message.
.SS \f[B][-V, --version]\f[]
.PP
Prints out version information.
.SH FILES
.SS \f[I][\&...]/dpath.conf\f[]
.PP
The dpath configuration file.
.SS \f[I][\&...]/dpaths/\f[]
.PP
This dir contains the system dpaths usable by gtransfer and is
configurable.
Can be created with \f[B]dpath\f[].
.SS \f[I]$HOME/.gtransfer/dpaths/\f[]
.PP
This dir contains the user dpaths usable by gtransfer.
Can be created with \f[B]dpath\f[].
.SS \f[I][\&...]/dpaths/sources.index\f[]
.PP
These files (there can be a system one and a user one!) contain all
source host addresses available in the respective dpaths
directories.
.SS \f[I][\&...]/dpaths/destinations.index\f[]
.PP
These files (there can be a system one and a user one!) contain all
destination host addresses available in the respective dpaths
directories.
.PP
The index files enable for faster lookup when used by gtransfer's
bash completion.
Index files are automatically created and extended when creating
dpaths.
The format of each line in these files is as follows:
.PP
<PROTOCOL>://hostname.domain.tld:<PORT>
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]dpath(5)\f[], \f[B]sha1sum(1)\f[], \f[B]gtransfer(1)\f[]
.SH AUTHORS
Frank Scheiner.

