.TH "HALIAS" "1" "Apr 20, 2017" "halias 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]halias\f[] \- host alias helper utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]halias [OPTION] [\f[I]STRING\f[]]\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]halias\f[] (host alias) is a small helper utility providing an
interface to the alias bashlib.
It can be used to list or expand host aliases and also to check if a
given string is an alias.
You can define system aliases and user aliases.
When dealiasing strings, user aliases take precedence over system
aliases.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The options are as follows:
.SS \f[B]\-l, \-\-list\f[]
.PP
List all available host aliases.
If a system alias and a user alias are identical, only one of both is
shown.
.SS \f[B]\-d, \-\-dealias \f[I]STRING\f[]\f[]
.PP
Expand a given string.
If \f[I]STRING\f[] is not a host alias, then \f[I]STRING\f[] is just
printed to STDOUT.
.SS \f[B]\-i, \-\-is\-alias \f[I]STRING\f[]\f[]
.PP
Check if a given string is a host alias.
Returns 0 if yes, 1 otherwise.
.SS \f[B]\-r, \-\-retrieve [\f[I]/path/to/host\-aliases\f[]] [\-q]\f[]
.PP
Retrieve host aliases from a repository configured in
\f[I][...]/aliases.conf\f[] (see below) and store them in the
user\-provided path or \- if no additional path is given \- in the user
host aliases directory.
If a "\-q" is provided, then output is omitted and success/failure is
only reported by the exit value.
.PP
General options:
.SS \f[B][\-\-help]\f[]
.PP
Prints out a help message.
.SS \f[B][\-V, \-\-version]\f[]
.PP
Prints out version information.
.SH FILES
.SS \f[I][...]/aliases.conf\f[]
.PP
The halias configuration file.
The paths to system and user aliases directories can be configured
there.
.SS \f[I][...]/aliases[/]\f[]
.PP
This file can be a directory or a regular file and contains the system
aliases.
.SS \f[I]$HOME/.gtransfer/aliases[/]\f[]
.PP
This file can be a directory or a regular file and contains the user
aliases.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]gtransfer(1)\f[]
.SH AUTHORS
Frank Scheiner.
