.TH DPARAM 5 "Aug 19, 2013" "gtransfer 0.2.0" "Configuration files"
.SH NAME
.PP
default param (dparam) - defines optimized data transfer parameters
between source and destination of a gtransfer data transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[I]$HOME/.gtransfer/dparams/*\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I][\&...]/dparams/*\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Default parameters (dparams) can be defined for specific source
destination combinations, given the fact, they describe
\f[I]direct\f[] connections.
A \f[I]direct\f[] connection is defined as having no transit site
between source and destination.
The default parameters are usually consisting of the best
performing parameter configurations for the
\f[B]globus-url-copy(1)\f[]/\f[B]tgftp(1)\f[] tool for the
corresponding connection.
These can be determined by executing data transfer tests between
the specific source and destination.
.PP
Dparams can be created either manually or via the
\f[B]dparam(1)\f[] tool.
Please see \f[B]dparam(1)\f[] for more information.
.PP
Dparams are named after the SHA1 hash of the corresponding source
and destination (separated by a \f[B];\f[]) used during creation.
E.g.
a dparam with \f[B]gsiftp://host1.domain.tld:2811\f[] as source and
\f[B]gsiftp://host3.domain.tld:2811\f[] as destination will be
named \f[B]799f02cde51576d5f620b8450a37e65d48883801\f[].
This way gt can select the correct dparam for a transfer by
calculating the SHA1 hash of the source and destination.
The \f[B]dparam(1)\f[] tool also links the dparam file with an
alias symlink that makes it easier to inspect specific dparams.
.SH PURPOSE
.PP
When transferring data from source to destination, gtransfer will
automatically use the corresponding dparam for the specific
transfer providing optimized performance without user intervention.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\f[CR]
      <source>
      gsiftp://host1.domain.tld:2811
      </source>
      <destination>
      gsiftp://host3.domain.tld:2811
      </destination>
      <gsiftp_params>
      -p\ 4\ -tcp-bs\ 16M\ -cc\ 8\ -stripe\ -cd
      </gsiftp_params>
\f[]
.SH DPARAM SYNTAX
.PP
A dparam file consists of XML like tags, attributes and values.
As gt does not make use of a real XML parser, (start and end) tags
and values have to be written on a single line each as shown in the
example.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]gtransfer(1)\f[], \f[B]dparam(1)\f[], \f[B]sha1sum(1)\f[],
\f[B]tgftp(1)\f[], \f[B]globus-url-copy(1)\f[]
.SH AUTHORS
Frank Scheiner.

