.TH DPATH 5 "Aug 19, 2013" "gtransfer 0.2.0" "Configuration files"
.SH NAME
.PP
data path (dpath) - defines possible paths between source and
destination of a gtransfer data transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[I]$HOME/.gtransfer/dpaths/*\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I][\&...]/dpaths/*\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A data path (dpath) describes possible paths from a specific source
to a specific destination.
There exists only one dpath (file) for each source destination
combination.
However each dpath (file) can contain multiple distinct paths that
each route data from source to destination.
These paths are differentiated by an attribute called
\f[I]metric\f[].
The metric attribute of a path is an indicator for the possible
data transfer performance of a path (somewhat similar to metrics in
routing).
Therefore, the fastest path should use the metric \f[B]0\f[].
Slower paths should use a metric of \f[B]0\ +\ n\f[].
.PP
Dpaths can be created either manually or via the \f[B]dpath(1)\f[]
tool.
Please see \f[B]dpath(1)\f[] for more information.
.PP
Dpaths are named after the SHA1 hash of the corresponding source
and destination (separated by a \f[B];\f[]) used during creation.
E.g.
a dpath with \f[B]gsiftp://host1.domain.tld:2811\f[] as source and
\f[B]gsiftp://host3.domain.tld:2811\f[] as destination will be
named \f[B]799f02cde51576d5f620b8450a37e65d48883801\f[].
This way gt can select the correct dpath for a transfer by
calculating the SHA1 hash of the source and destination.
The \f[B]dpath(1)\f[] tool also links the dpath file with an alias
symlink that makes it easier to inspect specific dpaths.
.SH PURPOSE
.PP
When transferring data from source to destination, gtransfer will
by default use the path with metric 0 from the corresponding dpath.
You can change the used metric with the gtransfer option
\f[B]--metric|-m\f[].
By providing dpaths gtransfer can bridge different network domains
\f[I]transparently\f[].
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\f[CR]
      <source>
      gsiftp://host1.domain.tld:2811
      </source>
      <destination>
      gsiftp://host3.domain.tld:2811
      </destination>
      <path\ metric="0">
      gsiftp://host1.domain.tld:2811;gsiftp://host3.domain.tld:2811
      </path>
      <path\ metric="1">
      gsiftp://host1.domain.tld:2811;gsiftp://host2.domain.tld:2811/tmp/
      gsiftp://host2.domain.tld:2811/tmp/;gsiftp://host3.domain.tld:2811
      </path>
\f[]
.SH DPATH SYNTAX
.PP
A dpath file consists of XML like tags, attributes and values.
As gt does not make use of a real XML parser, (start and end) tags
and values have to be written on a single line each as shown in the
example.
.SH PATH SYNTAX
.PP
A path is a table with two columns separated by \f[B];\f[].
Each line of the table describes one step of a transfer and
consists of the source (1st col.)
and the destination (2nd col.)
of a transfer step.
.SS Single step or direct transfers
.PP
The one and only line starts with a string identical to the source
of the data path.
The destination is identical to the destination of the data path.
This means that for direct transfers there are not paths added to
these strings.
.SS Multistep or indirect transfers
.PP
\f[B]A.\f[] The first line either starts with a string identical to
the source of the data path or a \f[B]file://\f[] URL part, if a
local transfer is needed first (for example a transfer from a local
scratch filesystem to another locally mounted remote filesystem).
The destination (the \f[I]transit site\f[]) is either a
\f[B]gsiftp://FQDN[:PORT]\f[] URL with a default path (temporary
storage space for files on transit sites) added, or a
\f[B]file://\f[] URL part with a default path added.
.PP
\f[B]B.\f[] All following lines start with either the destination
string of the previous line or a \f[B]gsiftp://FQDN[:PORT]\f[] URL
with a path added, that points to the same directory as the path
used by the previous destination.
They end either with a string which is identical to the destination
of the data path (last step without a path), or a destination as
described in A (transit step).
.SH WARNING
.PP
Paths with identical metric are not allowed currently!
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]gtransfer(1)\f[], \f[B]dpath(1)\f[], \f[B]sha1sum(1)\f[]
.SH AUTHORS
Frank Scheiner.

